Before we let you dive into an exercise,
I wanted to share some methods that might be helpful.
There are different ways to do these operations but I wanted to share this information.
Let's take a look at this notebook.
I've created a synthetic data example here for working through this.
First, we'll go over how to search for text in
a code description of a given text pattern using about contains function.
As you can see in the code,
we use this function to filter out the records that contain the text angioplasty.
For our example, four out of five records have angioplasty in the text description.
Also, we can reverse the filter and see
records that don't have it by just adding the Tilda
to the inner filter data frame condition and
see the one record that doesn't have this text.
Next, we move on to a second key skill that will cover,
which is grouping codes that start with a certain character string pattern.
So let's take the first character four.
This can only include one code in this example
but when we go through more code sets later,
this first code could be a whole section of codes in group of large number of codes.
Understand the hierarchy can be really important to
see how things are grouped and at each character,
as we mentioned earlier, this can make a big difference.
Next, let's try two characters and use D2 for grouping codes.
In this case, we now have two codes.
Now that you have a little practice with filter and codes
by description and grouping by characters,
you're ready to play with some real codes from a real data set.
This will help you understand the complexity and challenges of
using code sets in aggregating this information.
Also, this will give you the foundation for using
more advanced methods as you grow your knowledge in this field.